# Through-the-Wall-Radar-Human-Activity-Recognition-Based-on-M-D-Corner-Feature-and-Non-Local-Net

**Introduction:** This repository is the open source code for our latest feasibility work: "Abnormal Human Activity Recognition Method Based on Micro-Doppler Corner Representation and Non-Local Mechanisms for Through-the-Wall Radar", submitted to Journal of Radars;

**Submitted Author:** Weicheng Gao;

**Email:** JoeyBG@126.com.

**Abstract:** Through-the-wall radar is able to penetrate walls and achieve indoor human target detection. Deep learning is commonly used to extract the micro-Doppler signature, which can be used to effectively identify abnormal human activities behind obstacles. However, when different testers are invited to generate the training set and test set, the test accuracy of deep-learning-based recognition method is low with poor generalization ability. Therefore, this paper proposes an abnormal human activity recognition method based on micro-Doppler corner features and Non-Local mechanism. In this method, Harris and Moravec detectors are utilized to extract the corner features on the radar image, and the corner feature dataset is established in this manner. Then, multi-link parallel convolutions and Non-Local mechanism are utilized to construct the global contextual information extraction network to learn the global distribution characteristics of image pixels. The semantic feature maps are generated by repeating the global contextual information extraction network four times. Finally, the predicted probabilities of human activities are obtained by multi-layer perceptron. Numerical simulations and experiments are conducted to verify the effectiveness of the proposed method, showing that the proposed method can identify sudden abnormal human activities, and improve the recognition accuracy, generalization ability and robustness.

## 
